Translate the DNA->RNA->Protein : dataset : https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/  | Nucleotide sample : (NM_207618.2) link - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/NM_207618.2
 
Life depends on the ability of cells to store, retrieve, and translate
genetic instructions.
These instructions are needed to make and maintain living organisms.
For a long time, it was not clear what molecules
were able to copy and transmit genetic information.
We now know that this information is carried by the dioxyribonucleic acid
or DNA in all living things.
DNA is a discrete code physically present
in almost every cell of an organism.
We can think of DNA as a one dimensional string of characters
with four characters to choose from.
These characters are A, C, G, and T. They
 stand for the first letters with the four nucleotides used to construct DNA.
The full names of these nucleotides are adenine, cytosine, guanine,
and thymine.
Each unique three character sequence of nucleotides,
sometimes called a nucleotide triplet, corresponds to one amino acid.
The sequence of amino acids is unique for each type of protein
and all proteins are built from the same set of just 20 amino acids
for all living things.
Protein molecules dominate the behavior of the cell
serving as structural supports, chemical catalysts, molecular motors, and so on.
The so called central dogma of molecular biology
describes the flow of genetic information in a biological system.
Instructions in the DNA are first transcribed into RNA
and the RNA is then translated into proteins.
We can think of DNA, when read as sequences of three letters,
as a dictionary of life.
In this case study, we will first download a DNA strand as a text file
 from a public web-based repository of DNA sequences.
We will then write code to translate the DNA sequence
 to a sequence of amino acids where each amino acid is
 represented by a unique letter.
We will also download the amino acid sequence to check our solution.


I did this project to accompany my learnings from HarvardX course - PH526x Using Python for Research.

- Amartya Ranjan Saikia (amartyasaikia@acm.org/ar5saikia@gmail.com)